hey this is presto Walker how many holes
does a straw have this question has
created a lot of debate online BuzzFeed
recently created a video that already
has over 450,000 views this is amazing
it's a topology topic that's going viral
topology is a branch of mathematics
dealing with the study of shapes and it
was important for the 2016 Nobel Prize
and physics now I've noticed something
interesting when a matter of science
gets in the news
you always have scientists that are
consulted when a matter of law gets in
the news
you always have lawyers that are quoted
you always have experts that are quoted
when those topics get in the news what
happens when mathematics gets in the
news well people just debate it so I am
begging BuzzFeed and the media please
please reach out to math people like me
and other math people who are on social
media for such topics it's a great time
where we can educate people about
mathematics for something they're
already discussing so how many holes
does a straw have what was the debate
centered around here are a few of the
popular answers many people thought a
straw has two holes there's one hole at
the top and there's one hole at the
bottom there's another camp of people
that says a straw just has one hole it's
a really long hole now there are also
some people who said a straw has zero
holes if you puncture one side of a
straw with the needle you would say the
straw has one hole so an undamaged straw
starts with zero holes so these are a
few the answers that people gave to this
question but which one is correct
mathematically give this a try and when
you're ready keep watching the video and
I'll give the mathematical explanation
to this question
so how many holes does a straw have
here's a short mathematical proof for
why it has one hole a straw is
topologically equivalent to the product
of s1 and the interval 0 l where s1 is a
unit circle and L is the length of the
straw since s1 has one hole and the
interval 0 L has no holes a straw has
one hole this is essentially the
argument that I read in the article
drinking straws how many holes by Kevin
Knutson was a professor mathematics at
the University of Florida and a Forbes
contributor so what exactly does
mathematical proof mean intuitively well
let me explain this in a little animated
fashion so we'll start with the circle
s1 now we would agree this has one hole
inside the inside of the circle is a
hole it's a two-dimensional space that's
contained by one dimensional simple
closed curve now what we're going to do
is we're going to give the circle depth
this will be the product s1 with the
interval 0 el
so there you see it there's one hole you
have the length of the straw and the
other side is still the same hole
so the straw has exactly one hole even
if we scale it down to the shape that
we're familiar with so that's the answer
the straw has one hole topologically is
that what you thought
thanks for watching this video please
subscribe to my channel I make videos on
math you can catch me on my blog mind
your decisions if you liked this video
please check out my books which are
listed in the video description
and you can support me on patreon if you
have a mathematical topic or puzzle you
can email me presh at mind your
decisions calm and you can catch around
social media either at mind your
decisions or a pressure to Walker